CONSTITUTION AND BY-LAWS
REVISED: October 28, 1999
INDEX
PREAMBLE Page 2
ORDER OF BUSINESS Page 2
CONSTITUTION
Name of Organization Page 3
Membership Page 3
Officers Page 4
Board of Directors Page 4
Membership Investigating Committee Page 4
Meetings Page 5
Amendments Page 5
BY-LAWS
Membership Page 6
Dues, Fines, and Membership Fees Page 7
Nominations and Elections of Officers Page 7, 8, 9
Duties of Officers Page 10, 11
Duties of Membership Investigating
Committee Page 12
Privileges and Conduct of Members Page 12, 13
Committees Page 13
Expenditures and Appropriations Page 14
Interpretation of Constitution and By-Laws Page 14
Pledge and By-Laws Committee Page 15
REVISED: February 27, 2003
PREAMBLE
The purpose and object of this club shall be to bring together at frequent intervals those who are
interested in the civic and fraternal betterment of any nature, with the purpose of promoting the
cause of good citizenship.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
I Call meeting to order
II Salute to the flag
III Moment of silence for all departed members
IV Roll call of Officers
V Reading of minutes of previous meeting
VI Communications
VII Treasurer's Report
VIII Board of Directors' Report
IX Report of regular and special committees, Hall Rental and Lottery
X Unfinished business
XI New business
XII Good of the club
A.) Sick call
B.) Bank night
XIII Adjournment
-2-
CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE I
NAME OF ORGANIZATION
This organization shall be known as the Gloucester Fraternity Club, Inc. This official title shall be
used in all written transactions of this organization.
ARTICLE II
MEMBERSHIP
Section I Regular Membership:
To become a regular member of this organization, one must be a male of Portuguese descent,
be of good moral character, and have reached the age of twenty-one (21).
There shall be forty-five (45) non-Portuguese regular members with American citizenship within
the organization at any one time.
Section II Guest Membership:
To become a guest member of this organization, one must be a male, an American citizen of
good moral character who has reached the age of twenty-one (21), and who by nationality or
other reasons is unable to join regular membership. Guest members shall have use of the
clubrooms when available and shall attend club festivities and serve on committees on invitation
only. They shall not attend regular or special meetings or vote.
Section III Armed Services
A regular member joining the Armed Forces shall be granted a leave of absence for four years
providing he remains in the service. All regular members, in the Armed Forces, shall be notified
of any new laws pertaining to leave of absence.
-3-
ARTICLE III
OFFICERS
The officers of this organization shall consist of a President, Vice-President, Recording
Secretary, Financial Secretary-Treasurer, Collector of Dues, Guide, and Four Directors.
ARTICLE IV
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
There shall be elected from the regular membership of this organization, four members to be
known as Directors who, with the President, Vice-President, Recording Secretary, Financial
Secretary-Treasurer, and Collector of Dues, shall constitute the nine-man Board of Directors,
who shall meet to formulate plans and recommend all purposes and procedures of the
organization.
The Board in its entirety at its first meeting of the new term of office will elect from among the
four directors a chairman who will conduct all meeting of the board, and a vice-chairman to
serve in the absence of the chairman.
ARTICLE V
MEMBERSHIP INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE
This five (5) member standing committee shall consist of two (2) Directors appointed by the
Chairman of the Board, the Collector of Dues, and two (2) regular members-at-large in good
standing appointed by the President with confirmation by the Board of Directors. The term of
service for this committee will run concurrent with the term of the presiding administration.
This committee in its entirety, at its first meeting, will elect from amongst themselves a chairman
who will conduct all meetings of the committee, and a vice-chairman to serve in the absence of
the chairman.
-4-
ARTICLE VI
MEETINGS
Section I
The regular meetings of this organization shall be held once a month on the fourth Thursday at
7:00 p.m. When that day is in conflict with a special event or falls on a holiday, then the meeting
shall be held at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Public notice shall be given.
Section II
Special meetings shall be called at the discretion of the Board of Directors or when requested in
a written statement signed by a minimum of twenty (20) regular members in good standing and
in which the specific purpose of the meeting is stated. This request must be submitted to the
Board of Directors. Due public notice must be given to the entire regular membership and only
the matter for which such special meeting is called shall be discussed and acted upon.
Section III
A quorum of fifteen (15) shall be necessary for all regular and special club meetings.
ARTICLE VII
AMENDMENTS
Any amendments to this constitution and by-laws shall be submitted in writing at a regular
meeting of this organization. Such amendments must be signed by at least three (3) members
in good standing. The amendment shall be read by the Secretary under the heading of new
business, at three consecutive meetings. If at the third reading it is approved by a two-thirds
majority of the members voting, the proposed amendment shall become a part of the
Constitution and By-Laws.
-5-
BY-LAWS
ARTICLE I
MEMBERSHIP
Section I Regular and Guest Membership,Application procedure:
To become a regular or guest member of this organization, an applicant must be sponsored by
a regular member in good standing. Said sponsor shall obtain an application form which will be
completed by the applicant. The completed application and membership fee shall then be
submitted to the Collector of Dues for first reading at the next regular meeting. The application
shall then be forwarded to the Membership Investigating Committee. (See Article V of the By-
Laws.)
Section II Regular and Guest Membership, Election Procedure:
A. An approved application from the Membership Investigating Committee will be forwarded
to the general membership for second reading and vote at the next regular meeting. A ballot
system of white and black balls shall be used, with the white balls electing and a minimum of
three (3) black balls rejecting. If an applicant is rejected he will be notified in writing by the
Collector of Dues and his membership fee returned. He may reapply for membership after a six
month period. In the case of a guest member who applies for an opening in the non-Portuguese
regular membership, and is rejected twice, his name will drop to the bottom of the guest
membership list. An applicant, if accepted, will be notified in writing by the Collector of Dues and
be requested to be present at the next regular meeting to take his pledge of membership and to
be formally introduced to the membership.
B. An unapproved application from the Membership Investigating Committee is covered in
Article V of these By-Laws.
Section III
Regular membership shall be limited to three hundred (300) paying members. Guest
membership shall not exceed fifty (50) percent (50%) of the allowed regular membership.
Section IV Life Membership, Definition:
Any regular member who has served at least fifteen (15) consecutive years of membership in
good standing, and has at least attained age 65 at the completion of said service, will be
granted Life Membership.
-6-
ARTICLE II
DUES, FINES AND MEMBERSHIP FEES
Section I
The membership fee for regular and guest membership shall be ten ($10.00) dollars.
Section II
Dues shall be as set forth by the general membership and payable by January 1st of each year.
Any regular member who is in arrears at the end of January will be duly notified by the Collector
of Dues that he has until the February meeting to pay his dues in full or be automatically
expelled from this organization; however, no member shall be suspended, expelled, or lose his
membership because of illness, providing any officer of this organization has been duly notified
of such illness.
If a regular member is expelled for non-payment of dues, he must follow the procedure as set
forth in Article I, Section I, in order to rejoin this organization.
Section III
Guest members shall pay dues as set forth by the membership at a regular meeting.
ARTICLE III
NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS OF OFFICERS
1. Nomination of Officers shall be held at the regular meeting in October of an election year.
2. A list shall be prepared by the Collector of Dues of all regular members in good standing
and this list shall be checked as regular members accept nominations.
3. A regular member must be in good standing for a minimum of six (6) months to accept a
nomination.
4. No regular member shall be a candidate for more than one office.
-7-
5. No employees of this organization shall be seated on the Board of Directors.
6. Any regular member who meets the above requirements can run on stickers for any
office.
7. Nominations and acceptance of nominations, shall be made from the floor at said
meeting, or in writing and in the hands of the Secretary prior to the nominations, as it
appears on the calendar of business at said meeting.
8. At the close of nominations, an election committee composed of a chairman and a
minimum of four (4) shall be appointed by the President. This committee shall take full
charge of the election, make themselves available for absentee voting, count ballots, and
post final results.
9. Candidates' names shall be drawn for ballot position by the election committee.
10. A copy of the ballot shall be posted prior to the election meeting and marked "Sample
Ballot".
11. A list shall be prepared (see Item 2 above) and this list to be checked for eligible voters.
12. Enough ballots shall be printed to correspond to the above list.
13. Election of Officers shall be held at that meeting which follows the nomination meeting.
14. Polls to open from 7:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
15. Date and time of the election meeting shall be posted on the club bulletin board; also, a
back page ad shall be placed in the Gloucester Daily Times in advance of the election
meeting date.
16. Any regular member unable to attend said election meeting because of illness,
occupational, or other responsibilities, may obtain an absentee ballot and an envelope
from a member of the election committee only. The voter will then mark his ballot, place it
in and seal the envelope. He will then sign the envelope and hand it to the election
committee member who will co-sign the envelope. These absentee ballots must be in
the hands of the election committee before the polls open.
-8-
17. In the event of a tie vote, for any office, there shall be a special election between the tied
candidates only. This election to be held within thirty (30) days and only those who voted
previously are eligible to vote on the tie. The election committee will notify all eligible
voters.
18. Ballots are to be kept in the office safe until the elected officers have been installed at the
bi-annual ceremony held in January, following the election.
19. All elected officers of this organization will serve the full term of one (1) year, except as
noted in Article III, Item 20.
20. Any office vacated as a result of death, illness, malfeasance of office, expulsion,
resignation or entrance into the Armed Forces of the United States, shall be filled by the
Board of Directors as soon as possible.
21. No member shall serve more than four consecutive terms (4 years) as President. After a
minimum of two (2) one year terms (2 years) break in service, he may run again for the
office of president. During the break in service, he may seek any office other than Vice
President.
-9-
ARTICLE IV
DUTIES OF OFFICERS
Section I
It shall be the duty of the President to preside at all meetings of the club, to preserve order and
discharge all duties generally attendant upon the office of the President.
Section II
The Vice-President shall assist the President in the discharge of his duties and, in the absence
of the President, perform the duties of his office.
Section III
The Recording Secretary shall attend all regular meetings of the organization, Board of
Directors meetings, and shall record clearly and correctly the minutes of such meetings. He
shall receive and answer all correspondence and bring before the organization all matters
contained in such correspondence at its next regular meeting.
Section IV
The Financial Secretary-Treasurer shall receive all monies and pay all customary bills pertaining
to the normal operation of this organization. Special or unusual bills must first be submitted to
the body for approval of payment. He shall submit an accurate account of all monies received
and all bills paid. See Article
VIII.
Section V
The Collector of Dues shall receive all membership fees and dues and notify all members of
their arrearage. He shall give a detailed report of membership status at the monthly Board of
Directors meetings.
Section VI
The Guide shall introduce all candidates and guests and shall extend to them the courtesies of
the club. He shall perform such other duties as may be required of him by the direction of the
Board of Directors.
-10-
Section VII
The Board of Directors as specified in Article IV of the Constitution shall meet at least once a
month. They shall also see that the books are audited by an in-house auditing committee
appointed by the Board of Directors at the end of their first year in office. Prior to the completion
of their term, the Board of Directors shall have the books audited by a public accountant with the
assistance of the auditing committee. The term of service of the auditing committee shall run
concurrently with the term of the presiding administration.
The Board of Directors will appoint a manager of the bar to comply with local Licensing Board
regulations. However, the Board of Directors shall control management of the bar.
The Board of Directors shall also have charge of all legal papers of the club and such other
duties, authorities, and powers as are generally conferred upon such Board of Directors in the
management and government of the affairs of this club.
Section VIII
Any officer or director who fails to attend the regular meetings of the club and Board of Directors
three (3) consecutive times without a reasonable excuse shall, by such failure to attend, vacate
his office, or if his office is vacated in accordance with Article III, Section 22, said vacancy shall
be filled by the Board of Directors as soon as possible.
Section IX
All Officers and Employees shall be bondable.
-11-
ARTICLE V
DUTIES OF MEMBERSHIP INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE
The Membership Investigating Committee as specified in Article V of the Constitution shall meet
monthly subject to submitted applications. They will be responsible for compiling character
evaluations of all applicants by such means as:
(a) verifying the statements made in the applications
(b) interviewing applicants
(c) interviewing sponsors
(d) interviewing character reference noted on applications
(e) inquiring with local authorities
Following their investigations, the committee shall meet to vote whether to forward an
application (with a minimum of three (3) votes in the affirmative necessary) for a second reading
and vote by the general membership at the next regular meeting; or reject said application
thereby requesting the sponsoring member to withdraw his sponsorship. In this case, the
sponsor retains his right to have the applications forwarded to the general membership for
second reading and vote. However, it will be noted that said application is not sanctioned by the
Membership Investigating Committee.
ARTICLE VI
PRIVILEGES AND CONDUCT OF MEMBERS
Section I
Regular members shall be allowed all privileges generally accorded members of an organization
of this kind.
Section II
No member shall contract any bills or incur any expense in the name of this organization without
proper authority.
No intoxicating liquors or games of chance shall be allowed at regular meetings.
.
-12-
Section III
No refreshments of any kind shall be allowed at regular or special meetings
Any member who is intoxicated or disorderly in any other manner shall be warned by the
presiding officer, and at the second warning, the member shall be asked to leave the meeting.
Any member committing or permitting a violation of the rules and regulations, or pledge of
membership as set down by this organization, or creates an obstruction of any other member in
the enjoyment of his equal rights may be brought up on written charges and dealt with in
accordance with these by-laws. Any member brought up on written charges shall be heard and
judged by the Board of Directors of the club at a private hearing.
The course of action allowed the Board of Directors may be one of the following:
(a) Dismiss the case.
(b) Suspend the member for a stated period of time with an
automatic one (1) year probationary period, following
the suspension. The regular member having the right to
appeal to the General Body.
Any member admitting to, or indicated guilty of flagrant disregard of club property (including
cards, keys, by-laws, etc.), or inflicting damage to club property, a written charge not
withstanding, shall appear before the Board of Directors to be heard and judged at a private
hearing.
Section IV
Any member on probation by this organization shall not hold or run for any office or hold
any job pertaining to the club for his period of probation.
ARTICLE VII
COMMITTEES
The chairman of any committee shall be appointed by the President unless other provisions for
his selection shall be made on motion, approved by a two-thirds majority of the members voting,
or as otherwise provided for in these by-laws.
-13-
ARTICLE VIII
EXPENDITURES AND APPROPRIATIONS
Donations of more than ten ($10.00) dollars shall require a two-thirds majority of those voting.
All money belonging to the club shall be deposited in some bank in the name of the President,
the Financial Secretary-Treasurer, and the club, and shall not be withdrawn except by check
bearing the name of the Financial Secretary-Treasurer and counter-signed by the President. All
expenditures shall be made by check, however, expenditures of over fifty ($50.00) dollars not
expressly considered "normal operating expenses" by the Board of Directors, require a twothirds
majority of those voting at a regular or special meeting.
Withdrawals of money from the regular savings accounts also require the approval of a twothirds
majority of members voting at a regular or special meeting. Any attempted circumvention
(i.e. The earmarking of cash funds) of the aforementioned procedure is strictly prohibited.
ARTICLE IX
INTERPRETATION OF CONSTITUTION AND BY-LAWS
All rules and motions heretofore in force which would conflict with any herein, shall upon
adoption of this constitution and by-laws, be declared void. Interpretation of these by-laws shall
be made by the Board of Directors.
-14-
ARTICLE X
PLEDGE
I do most solemnly on my honor, promise to observe and abide by the rules and regulations of
the Gloucester Fraternity Club, Inc., and that I will attend the meetings of this organization as
often as it is possible for me to do so; and I will strive to create a brotherly feeling between the
members of this organization. To this I pledge my honor.
The Constitution and By-Laws committee consisted of the following members:
Ralph E. Goulart, Chairman
Richard A. Duwart
William P. Goulart, III
David A. Rose, P.P.
John A. Vestal, P.P.
Accepted, October 1994
-15-